hello welcome everyone my name is Leon
varberlo I'm the technical director of
building smart International I was asked
to present a workflow of different
standards and solutions that building
smart has and how they connect to each
other and I'm very sorry I can't join
you in person unfortunately logistically
that's not possible at the moment but I
hope I can inspire you to um to try to
work out this workflow yourself as well
um I'm maybe even in in-person event
later in the year
so to dive in we have a lot of these
different abbreviations and standards
and services and what we're trying to
focus on today are these so the IDS
information delivery specification IFC
industry Foundation classes and the BSD
the building from our data dictionary
we're also touching a little bit on the
validation service and the open CDE
standards for
communicating between uh different tools
interfacing and the Bim collaboration
formats but the main focus is on IDs IFC
and Base today and the way they interact
is in this workflow so what we're going
to see today is a definition of the
requirements
what do I need to have how do I expect
to to get the information
then there's the step of creating the
IFC data
next is check do I have the correct IFC
data in the way that was originally
defined in those requirements and then
we can communicate and share the results
so mapping that to the building smart
Solutions and standards we have the
information on every specification XML
definition computer interpretable
machine readables initiative to Define
requirements in this demo we're going to
use the molio house IFC which is already
available and this comes from archicad
this ifc2x3 and Export it according to
the coordination view version 2 MPD
um then we're going to check that IFC
file against the requirements I'm going
to use Bim Works which is a very
technical IFC IDs and BCF tool
supporting tools full open beam workflow
tool an online CDE where we can do that
and then um the the results can be
communicated through BCF we're also
going to do is adding this additional
point of validation
um I'm going to lightly touch on this to
show the validation service which is in
beta currently on validate.billy
smart.org you can try that yourself as
well
um but this will be uh I just uh briefly
touching on it and when we have this
flow we're also going to bring in the
building smart data dictionary as a
reference library so when we do the
validation
um this validation service also checks
information consistency is the
information consistently structured
according to how the standards have
published their standards in the BSD
um with inside the IFC file we will see
that some classifications and properties
have a link to the building smart data
dictionary Library as a reference we
will see that as well how that works and
what we won't see in this video in this
presentation is how the reference
library be used to be can be used to
create information language
specifications but that's also one of
the one of the ways that the base that
you can work
so let's start off with IDs the
information on every specification this
is an XML based definition so if you
define what you need according to this
structure you'll get an XML file which
is quite technical but the reason why we
set up this initiative was to be able to
Define in a computer interpretable way
what do you need so for example all
spaces must have a gross a gross floor
area quantity all waiting spaces must
have a property about accessibility so
there's a couple of those examples so
again when you create those
um in in this in this flow you can
create an informational specification of
what you need and what objects what kind
of properties or classification
references or materials object you need
to have
um then the the IFC data is created and
you can check if it's valid a more
a more advanced workflow is shown here
where the client creates an IDs
the IDS is sent to the modeler the
modeler creates the model can validate
against IDs as well before exporting to
IFC and then an export to IFC can be
sent back to the client and the client
can also validate the data against the
IFC also here in this flow you see that
the BSD can be used for data enrichment
we see BCF as well
so this is just a more advanced picture
um
so model art of model authors receive an
IDs file and can ensure all the required
information is provided for each
specification a lot of recipients can
check the IFC against the IDS
there's a lot of um different IDs
editors already available there's even
more RDS Checkers available we we
stopped tracking the list of those
because it's so big
um for the demo today I'm going to use
beamworks which is available at
bim.works this is a full open Bim a CDE
focused really on the technology
um
so let's dive into that I will switch
screens and switch to another video
so this is the IDS file again the
requirements file for the IFC
um this is the XML version so the
technical view but we also have a tool
uh created by a blender beam where you
can just load that file into uh into
this viewer and then it shows you a
human readable form of that machine
interpretable XML so you see there's
four requirements spaces waiting spaces
CCS properties on walls and windows so
we can just scroll through them and kind
of try to humanly read them as you see
IDs also has these fields where you can
add human readable instructions I didn't
do that in this example but that is also
possible so as you can see
for Windows for example
um these requirements apply to all
windows and the requirements are is
external data shall be provided in a
certain preset a CCI type data in a
different preset a nice one is the
waiting spaces I think because this
applies to all spaces with a certain
classification and for those spaces the
property handicapped accessible needs to
be in certain p sets so RDS is quite
rich in a way that it can be very
flexible on what you can require as you
see here as well based quantities and
the user-defined property sets are
required for spaces
um so it's quite a rich way of
expressing requirements very much
focused on what the the current
practices
um focused on on IFC of course
so when we take these four requirements
and we put them in a certain viewer so
in this case we have the demolio house
here
um I'm using this vimworks viewer purely
because it's a it's a very technical
view I like that of course
um gives me a very good overview of
what's actually in the IFC file without
software interpretation
um so I always prefer this this tool it
has a lot of functionalities on base to
D and IDs as well so let's look into
that so when you when we have the
definitions here it has the audio file
as well so as you see here this is the
the same IDs that we had that we had
before
so let's have a look to the uh the
module one and see what we have here
this is a bit of an adopted changed
version from uh from the previous from
the normal one and the way you can see
that is uh let me let me give you a
search of all these spaces
only
uh sorry walls
show only walls
so for example when I select this wall
uh as you see this is a very technical
view which shows all of the data all of
the properties including also the
classes here so this is classification
reference and as you see here it's it
has the CCS classification in there and
it also has this URI the unique resource
identifier this was added to the the
public audio file just to show how vsd
is can be used as a reference so when I
now click here and say show me the Base
today info it makes a connection to the
building smarter dictionary and it comes
up with okay this
rl1
R1 classification that's actually a
construction wall and the description of
that is it's an assembly system forming
virtual separation related IFC entities
ID so what you expect this is published
in the building smart data dictionary
what you expect is that this
classification reference is linked to
these kind of objects which it is as we
saw this is an IFC wall and what's also
listed in the buildings my data
dictionary is that typically this kind
of
classification reference these kind of
further specialization of a war as these
properties and these are IFC properties
again as you see So within the village
my data dictionary you can publish
a classification class and refer to
properties from other domains as well
that obviously increases
interoperability and further information
as well here like status dates when it's
published and parents parent classes Etc
there's also different translations if
they are available inside the Village
Market data dictionary for uh for people
to be able to read this so these Uris
work um
work in a very nice way and this is also
what we expect that people are going to
be adding to IFC when they use the data
dictionary I think this is also a direct
link so as you can see it's also
directly available also when tools are
not supporting it inside there inside
virtual like like this one does
so
um this is this reference to the the
data dictionary as you see it can be
very helpful
um
but let's get back to our original uh
our original View
so our original view of the uh the
checks so we have this IFC Farm out it
has the references to the building smart
data dictionary in there
um and let's do the next step where we
are going to do the model check and in
this case we obviously do the molio
check and as you see there are some
errors 126 errors 305 valid objects when
we click further into this we can see
that all of the CCI properties on walls
are correct 189 are all valids the
correct properties that we require there
are all there when I click on this it
zooms in and you can
further evaluate it
but for spaces most of the spaces are
also fully compliant it it does have all
of the properties that we require but
there is one space that doesn't I am
really curious if that was actually
known from this file so we can zoom into
that as well as you can see it's very
more technical too
I have some difficulties with viewing
please forgive me but the essence of
this is that the property CCI
administrative multi-level ID is missing
here and it is on all of the other
spaces
um so we hope that's
I actually do hope that that is a
surprise because it would show the power
of uh of ideas
um other requirements so all of the
windows are uh are missing something in
this case the pset will come and fire
exit is missing
it's probably for all of the windows the
case yeah but it does have all of the
other properties so there's also
obviously different ways of uh of
viewing this
um you can also just give all of the
errors per property instead of per check
but that's obviously on the software
vendors to um to presenters so the next
step here would be exporting this to PCF
and in this case this tool bimworks also
has a nice download sbcf option where it
provides the the results of the checks
in the BCF another option which this
tool does not support yet is to to share
the BCF topic through the BCF API which
is as many of you would know part of a
open CDE groups of apis
which would accelerate the process even
further but I think it's this is already
a nice overview on the combination
between IFC using the village mod data
dictionary as a reference and having the
information leverage specification
um in different formats so the the
formal XML but also the human readable
interpretation of that so again this is
just a viewer that shows the XML data in
a more human readable way but it's the
same data
um and having that as a result from
checks in the tool that they implemented
so coming back to the slides
um what we've seen was the IBS IFC and
IDs check in bibrx and a little bit
about that it's a possible to also
export to BCF
what I want to dive into a little bit
closer is the bsdd and the validation
service and maybe to just highlight a
couple of things on the BSD because we
really just saw how it works in bin
works and how information can be
gathered and what we also saw was how
the references from to the base that
they are stored in IFC
but maybe a step back something a little
bit more high level the B is the D to
build my data dictionary is actually a
service it runs on
bsdwbsmart.org it's a API first service
and it's used to publish standards this
can be product data templates can be
national standards industry standards
project or company specific standards
and they can be verified or unverified
it's possible to link between objects
and it's also possible to access that
data through multiple different
interfaces so when we look again at for
example this wall construction that we
saw earlier in the demo when I uh when I
searched this there's two popping up
within the CCI publication and looking
at that more construction that we saw
earlier in the bimworks demo you see
there's a lot of information inside the
BHD about this this data is verified so
it gets this verified status so it means
that this is a much more much more
stable and mature data than some of the
others and you can also use this on
searching and filtering to to make sure
that you only use verify data
in this case it says that this this is
published according to a certain license
there's a verification report more
information the quality assurance
processes owner etc etc in this case it
also says that this class this specific
lad code
is expected to be linked to an IFC wall
if you will standard case or Element
Case pile and or curtain wall
it has synonyms it has a description
and it also has properties that are
coming from other domains so in this
case molio has said hey this lad codes
this wall construction
[Music]
um we we tend to see we expect to see
these kind of properties linked to it so
these are not molio properties these are
properties from IFC that are published
inside the data dictionary and are owned
by IFC but are linked to this to this
class
and the ability to do this to link to
IFC entities to link other properties
because I can also Imagine you have this
CCS administrative property set
published in the data dictionary and
Link those uh publish those and connect
to those to this object as well all of
that is possible but you can also mix
and match between different
different standards and different
domains
um and I don't have enough time to dive
into depth in very deeply but when you
look at B is the dwxmart.org you would
find links to all of these videos the
full story is there as well including a
SketchUp use case which is also separate
link here so if you want to screenshot
this go ahead and there's a very nice
etem use case of using ARCA software as
well
um
this is about producing IFC data with
obesity in a very effective way we
skipped that step in this demo from the
molier house earlier because we assumed
there was already an IFC file with all
of this data insights but the bhdd is
also a tool that can help in a very very
effective way to to structure the
information in a very specific way
so that was just a little bit more on
The bilmish Mod data dictionary and its
place in the ecosystem when we go back
to this original overview we see that
there's also an arrow between the
validation service and the bsdd
reference library
um and to explain that I need to explain
you the validation Service as well
so the building smart validation service
is something new it's in beta
um it really doesn't work that well yet
I have to admit but you can already test
it on validate.bilishma.org
if you already use another service like
the use Case Management Service from
building smart you can use the same
login and your same account to log in
here as well and what this does is it
provides a judgment on Conformity of Any
Given IFC file that you can upload
against the IFC specification
so this checks on the IFC schema but
also the informal propositions the
implementers agreements and a lot of
other things syntax check is also in
there
um so this was created on the specific
request of the software vendors our
large strategic members who said there's
too much going on on blaming software
for bad implementations sometimes the
files are just not good but in some
software they forgive
incorrect files a lot more than other
tools so we need to have this neutral
platform that can judge is the file
correct or not and building smart has to
make that so that's why we started to
create this so feel free to try this
um an additional feature next to just
checking the the against the IFC
specification is again that Emerald
between B the B is the D and the
validation service it's the check for
information consistency it checks your
IFC data against
um conformance to the bsdd data
and there's a there's a simple example
here where we have some demo data in
there where a window has a property is
beautiful and the allowed values are
true and then when you check an IFC file
in the validation service you get a
report like this and it says hey I found
a window with a property value is
beautiful false so that's not consistent
to how it's been published in the bsdb
so when we look at for example the molio
house if we look at this wall
construction again
um this this classification reference
says that it needs to be linked to an
IFC element an IFC entity object that is
either IFC wall an ifual standard case
Element Case pile curtain wall and it
needs to have these properties
so if you now upload the IFC file to the
validation service which unfortunately I
don't have time to do that in this
presentation but I highly recommend you
to try it yourself
validate.mishma.org beware this really
still is in better
you can you can see how the reports that
we showed earlier uh will will be
presented to you and it would also say
that in this case the walls with this
classification reference do not have all
of these properties
um
but if it does have these properties it
can also check if the values are correct
according to the standard or not and it
gives you some kind of impression on the
information consistency so this is a
different kind of check information
consistency against what has been
published in the BSD which is a more
static publication
um
but of course as you saw as well we also
have this IDs check and in the example
that we have now for uh for example it
checks if the spaces have
um the accessibility property
this is also published in the film smart
data dictionary but it's also defined in
the IDS as required for this project in
this phase for this transaction
so there's two kinds of checks one is
really against a hard set this is what I
need for my project the IDS and a more
broader information consistency that
says hey you've you've got an object
here that is not really consistent
according to the standards that is
published in this reference library it
doesn't necessarily mean it's it's wrong
for your project but it does say
something against against this reference
library so these are two different
checks two different validations and
again I'm really running out of time now
I invite you to try it yourself
you do have to be quite patient but I
really do encourage you because I
I really want to have your feedback as
well if you want to try this you do need
to have the molio IFC file with the Uris
so as you see here this is the URI
reference that we saw earlier as well in
the demo this has to be in the IFC file
so the validation service knows how to
query and how to get the information of
this object from the PSD and those files
have been published on our GitHub
website in the the GitHub building smart
organization there's a repository called
sample test files you would find the
moleo IFC file with the BSD Uris and the
IDS example and also a couple of the
videos to to watch back
so
um thank you very much I also highly
encourage you if you have any questions
please contact me at this email address
or even if you want uh just give me a
call
um
just give me a call or WhatsApp messages
send me an email please don't hesitate
if you have specific questions about the
validation service I would say use
validate at buildingsmart.org if you
have specific questions about the bsdd
we also have base the D support at
building smart.org but please don't
hesitate to also just email or call me
directly very eager to help very eager
to also hear your feedback on all of
this and again there's a there's a lot
more there's also more to say about the
opencde apis
um and there's a lot more to say about a
lot of different initiatives that are
going on as well lucky use Case
Management Service that also definitely
has a place here but I'm really running
out of time now so thank you very much
for your attention I'm really hoping to
to follow up with you offline or online
thank you very much